In the current lesson, we will work on the traces of bullets in space.
In the trace folder I have created effects for the projectile and for the rifle.
We'll take a closer look at the effect for the rifle, since this particle system has a number of features.
Let's create it from scratch first, then simply replace it with the existing effect, in which I adjusted the necessary parameters.
Right-click in the content browser. In the fx category, choose Niagara Emitter. Select the Emmiter from template option.
Click next and select dynamic beam from the list. Let's call asset NE_TestBeam.
We open the asset. This system is a pulsating beam and it is perfect for us
to create traces of bullets in space. Let's immediately create a Niagara system based on this emitter.
Right click on the asset and select create niagara system.
Let's call our system NS_RifleBeam. Drag and drop the system onto the stage.
Place it in space so that our beam is visible and let's move on to the emitter construction.
The main category of settings for this emitter is called the beam emitter setup. We can change the end
point of our ray. Property is called BeamEnd and, for example, set X = 1200.
The beam has changed in size. Its length has become equal to 1200 units.
Thus, in order to implement spatial traces from bullets, we need to access this property
and set its value depending on our shot. Let's see how
this can be implemented. The first thing we need to do is set the checkbox to AbsoluteBeamEnd.
This means that we will be using the world coordinate system, not the local one.
Let's see how to create your own variable in the Niagara system.
We open the asset niagara system.
On the left there is a window with the parameters of the Niagara system. We need a user exposed category. Click on the plus.
We can create variables of various types. We need a variable of the vector type,
which is a point in 3d space, that is, in fact, it has the FVector type. We name the variable TraceTarget.
Now we need to bind this variable in the niagara emitter.
To do this, select our emitter trace and, opposite the property BeamEnd, click on the triangle and
find our TraceTarget variable in the search . Thus, the end of trace became dependent on our
newly created TraceTarget variable. And let's set one more setting: in the Emitter State category,
in the LoopBehavior, select the Once option. That is, our system will only be played once. Let's go to visual studio.
Our task is to spawn the trace effect and figure out how you can set the TraceTarget parameter
for our Niagara system. Let's start with the forward declaration of the niagara system in the rifle header file.
Create a property that will store a pointer to the trace effect.
Let's also create an additional property that will store the name of the variable
for the endpoint of our effect. The variable is of type FString. Let's call it TraceTargetName.
By default, we will assign the name of this variable, which we just created with you - TraceTarget.
Let's create a function that will be responsible for the spawn of this effect. Create it in the private section and
name the function SpawnTraceFX. The function will have two parameters.
The first parameter is the start point of the trace, and the second parameter is the end point of the trace.
We create the body of the function in a .cpp file. Let's include the header file NiagaraFunctionLibrary.
Let's go to the MakeShot function. In fact, we have already implemented trace.
They were done by drawing debug lines and now we are going to convert that
to a particle system. The starting point of trace is known to us - this is the location of the rifle muzzle.
And the coordinates of the end point will change depending on whether we got somewhere or not.
Let's create a local variable. Name it TraceFXEnd and assign the default value TraceEnd.
If trace was successful and we got into something, then we need to overwrite this variable.
Therefore, in the if block, we will assign it the value HitResult.ImpactPoint
Delete the commented out lines. We no longer need the debug output.
Also remove the else branch.
Thus, we have a starting point for trace, an ending point,
and we can call the SpawnTraceFX function in this place, which does not yet have an implementation.
As the first parameter, we pass the GetMuzzleLocation function, which returns the muzzle position, and as the
second parameter, we pass the TraceFXEnd variable. Let's start implementing the SpawnTraceFX function.
We create a local variable. We call it TraceFXComponent. In this variable,
we will assign a pointer that rotates the function
from the Niagara functional library SpawnSystemAtLocation.
We pass arguments to it. The first is the world. The second is the effect itself - TraceFX.
The third argument is the location of the system in the world. We pass the TraceStart parameter. The rest of the parameters can be
left as default. The last step that remains to be done is to pass the TraceEnd parameter to the Niagara system.
Checking for nullptr for TraceFXComponent. The Niagara component has a set of
functions that allow you to pass various types of parameters. The functions have the same origin:
SetNiagaraVariable. This is followed by Actor, Bool, Float, and so on. The function that is responsible for passing the vector
is called SetNiagaraVariableVec3. The first parameter to this function is the name of the variable.
We pass our property TraceTargetName, and the vector itself is the second parameter.
We pass the value of the TraceEnd variable. Let's see what we got. Launch editor.
Open the rifle's blueprint asset. Find TraceFX in the search and set
the niagara rifle beam effect. Compile. We start the game.
We start shooting. Our beam spawns. The starting point is at the muzzle and the ending point is at the point of impact. Everything works correctly.
Let's change the given beam effect to the one that I prepared in advance.
Open the vfx / rifle folder.
Open the niagara system. Right-click on the graph. Add emitter. Choose rifle beam.
In this emitter, you also need to bind to the end point of trace.
We find TraceTarget in the search. This emitter differs from the one we just
created only in a set of parameters. The main changes are essentially: the color of this emitter
and the thickness of the trace. We turn off the test emitter. We remove the check mark. Compile. We start the game. We shoot.
Trace has become more accurate.
The second type of trace refers to our rocket. It is located in the projectile folder.
We will not consider the detailed creation of this effect . We open the Niagara system. We are waiting for all shaders to be compiled.
In fact, this effect consists of several emitters and is a ported effect from the shooter game,
which is based on Cascade. The first emitter is a kind of flash with a special material.
The second emitter is the ball lightning that spawns on the sphere. The third emitter is the smoke trail.
And the fourth is a kind of spray. The only feature of this particle system is its
collision property. That is, the particles of this emitter will bounce off objects in the world that
have collisions. Let's see how it looks.
We open the folder with weapons. We choose projectile. We're completely customizable in blueprints,
so we'll just add the NiagaraparticleSystem component. Let's call this component TraceFX.
And we will set our niagara system in the property of this component.
Compile.
We start the game. We change the weapon to the launcher. We shoot and the projectile leaves a noticeable trace in space.
The particles also bounce off the floor, which looks quite impressive.
Let's make some improvements to our projectile.
Go to the materials folder. We created a special luminous material for pickups.
Let's make a copy and name the material MI_ProjectileGlow.
Open up material instance.
Let's replace the color with a lighter one.
And immediately copy it. And we will also increase the glow - set it to 500, that is, we have got
such a glowing material and let's assign this material to our sphere.
You can temporarily disable the Niagara system. Set Visible to false. Select our static mesh component and expose the created material.
The result is a glowing ball in the colors of our particle system and for the sake of completeness, let's add a light source to our projectile.
To do this, add a component called point light. This component
is a point light source. In the light category, we can adjust
various parameters of this light. I will only change the color of the light source.
Let's pull the projectile onto the stage and, thanks to the new component, our projectile will emit blue light,
that is, in fact, the visual part of our projectile now consists of 3 parts: this is the light source, the
luminous material and the Niagara particle system. Let's return the visibility of our particle system and see
how it looks on stage. Click play. We launch the rocket and see that the projectile is now illuminating the floor.
The only thing that can be improved in this system is to separate the effect of smoke from the entire system
and allow it to dissolve itself, because now we have such a moment: when we
hit the floor, the smoke immediately disappears, because we are doing the destruction of the entire actor with all its components.
At the moment of the collision, we can hide all components except the smoke and set, for example, the
projectile's lifespan in three seconds. This is food for thought. We will not implement this.